The controversy around Ben Davis' national service (NS) deferment highlights an
opportunity to rethink NS policy. His deferment was not granted because it did
not meet the criteria for long-term deferment. MINDEF worded its pursuit of
fairness this way: ... it would not be fair to approve applications for
deferment for individuals to pursue their own careers and development."
However, it then went on to say "In sports, deferments are granted only to
those who represent Singapore in international competitions like the Olympic
Games and are potential medal winners for Singapore. and that only three have
been granted in the last 15 years.  Looking at Ben Davis' situation, he is the
first Singaporean to sign a two-year contract with Fulham FC, a top-tier
English club. While this does not yet allow him to play in the first team, the
contract is a confirmation of his potential
- there is a high possibility of him bringing glory to Singapore if given the
  chance to develop. Note also that the application for deferment can be
understood as a willingness to fulfil his citizenship duties, albeit at a later
date.  Singapore prioritises national defense over everything else. This is
very understandable for a small island country, especially in the
nation-building years. In the light of this RARE situation, perhaps more
flexibility will be appreciated - the deferment by several years will
demonstrate to Singaporeans that their country is a supportive one, since Davis
does intend to serve NS.  Moreover, the potential glory he can bring when he
fulfils his potential is a form of soft power which is very important in this
increasingly connected world. 
